# My personal website [davidxiao.me](http://davidxiao.me/)

The content is authored by myself and checked in on github. The web pages are generated by [Hugo](http://gohugo.io/) and hosted on [Firebase](https://firebase.google.com/) utilizing Firebase as the backend storage. I built the site with one goal in mind: Keeping it as lightweight as possible.

## Step 1: Setting Up the Local Environment

Before deploying to Firebase, you need to have a running website on your local environment.

- Install hugo on your local environment. You can also download the hugo extended version.
- Fetch the repo.
```
  git clone git@github.com:davxiao/davidxiao-web.git;
```
- (optional) Set the correct github username and email for commits in the future.
``` 
  git config user.name "David Xiao";
  git config user.email "3964699+davxiao@users.noreply.github.com";
```
- Update submodules and do some cleanup.
```
  cd davidxiao-web;
  rm -rf public; # otherwise the following commands will fail
  git submodule update --init --recursive --depth=1 # needed when you reclone your repo (submodules may not get cloned automatically)
```

- Run `hugo server --buildDrafts --disableFastRender --panicOnWarning;` on the project root directory, then point your local browser to [http://127.0.0.1:1313/](http://127.0.0.1:1313/). If you want to make the website accessible within your internal network for easy access and debugging, run `hugo server --bind=0.0.0.0 --buildDrafts --disableFastRender --panicOnWarning ;`

As long as `hugo server` is running, it is serving the local test environment.

## Step 2: Deploying the web content to Firebase

1. Install Firebase CLI (required for deployment) and Google Cloud SDK CLI (optional) on your local environment.

   - Firebase CLI. The recommended way is to run `npm i -g firebase-tools;` See its [github repo](https://github.com/firebase/firebase-tools) for detail.

   - Google Cloud SDK CLI. If you are using macOS and have [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) installed, then just run `brew cask install google-cloud-sdk;` and you are all set.

2. Set up a Firebase account and create a new firebase project. It should be pretty straightforward. Just be advised that after the project is created, you need to specify the GCP resource location where the storage (bucket) will be located. The location itself can not be changed once specified, so choose wisely.

3. Configure firebase authentication using either a service account (recommended) or a user credential.

4. (optional) Run `firebase projects:list;` to make sure the tool is authorized to access the project you've created for hosting.

5. Run `firebase init;` in the project root directory to initilize the project.

6. Run `hugo && firebase deploy;` to push the website to firebase.

July 2022 update

terminalizer-player seems to be no longer active. I have switched to [asciinema](https://asciinema.org/).
~~## External Dependencies~~

~~The following libs are required only when using terminalizer-player. Those were tested in May 2020.~~

~~npm install --save xterm@3.14.5 jquery@3.5.1 terminalizer-player@0.4.1;~~

## Updating the theme

git submodule update --remote --merge --depth=1

## TODO

To be added later.
